---
layout: post
title:  The Sports Illustrated Redesign
categories: projects
img: assets/img/ozzie.jpg
---

### Backstory

On August 16, 1954, Time Inc took a risk and added a new magazine title into its portfolio. Titled Sports Illustrated, it's mission was to cover the "Wonderful World of Sport."

Flash forward 62 years and see a history dotted with milestones. Unforgettable moments forever immortalized on its covers.

Pain, struggle, triumph, defeat. The words of sports…the words of our users?!?

*Add a few tweets from frustrated users*

Not only are our users struggling, but our key KPIs were suffering. Sports Illustrated has some of the best sports journalism, but the experience of reading wasn't up to par.

### The Process
On January 12, 2016, the core team gather to begin a full-on redesign of the site. For the next 12 weeks, our team would be working very closely with the fantastic team at [Moment](http://www.momentdesign.com/). [John Devanney](http://www.momentdesign.com/who-we-are/john-devanney), [Karmen Kaufmann](http://www.momentdesign.com/who-we-are/karmen-kaufmann), [Oje Ihonvbere](http://www.momentdesign.com/who-we-are/oje-ihonvbere).

* Definition phase
  * Current state analysis
  * Experience definition
  * Brief curation
* Concepting phase
  * Interface concept
  * Screen design
  * Concept prototyping
* Build
  * Design & dev collaboration
  * Scaling the design team
  * User research


### Definition phase

Analyzed the current state of SportsIllustrated.com, defined the audience, and created product value propositions.

Mission statement: Our mission is to design a focused and sophisticated site where fans will experience SI’s unique point of view and get the sports news they want everyday.

Key KPIs
* Improve website performance
* Increase time spent on site
* Increase return visitors
* Increase new visitors
* Increase recirculation
* Increase ad viewability

#### Stakeholder Interviews

Problems
* Audience: Current audience is older than desired, visits disproportionately through the home page, and believes SI.com is a mirror of the magazine content
* Content: Maximize video consumption
* Presentation: Improve reading experience and navigation

Product Value Proposition: SportsIllustrated.com is a fast, focused, and sophisticated experience dedicated to passionate sports fans who want timely sports content with valued insight and a unique point of view.

#### Competitive landscape

{% include image.html img="assets/img/competitiveLandscape.jpg" title="Competitive Landscape Map" caption="Result of our competitive landscape mapping exercise" %}

#### Proto-Personas

{% include image.html img="assets/img/personaWorkshopOjeAndy.jpg" title="Oje and Andy discuss proto-persona" caption="Oje and Andy discuss proto-persona" %}

### Concepting phase

#### Design Research
* Audit of current site's interface
* Style tiles

{% include image.html img="assets/img/styleTileAlicia.jpg" title="Style tile" caption="Style tile concept" %}
{% include image.html img="assets/img/styleTileOje.png" title="Style tile" caption="Style tile concept" %}
{% include image.html img="assets/img/styleTileJohn-01.png" title="Style tile" caption="Style tile concept" %}
{% include image.html img="assets/img/styleTileJohn-02.png" title="Style tile" caption="Style tile concept" %}

#### Interface concepts

Through a series a design workshops, Moment led the charge creating a series of concepts.

{% include image.html img="assets/img/interfaceWorkshopRoom.jpg" title="Team working on interface concepts" caption="The team working on interface concepts through paper component wireframing" %}

#### Screen design



#### Typography
As a content heavy site, one of the most important areas of exploration was around the choice of typefaces. The most important pieces of info:
* Robust opentype features for the body font
* Tabular number support for tables


### Build phase
After Moment's 12-week engagement with us ended, it was now time to turn our attention to building out the system.

Top-of-mind for me was how to create a more collaborative environment between the engineering and design team. So I decided to run a series of workshops to jumpstart the process.

#### Design & Dev Collaboration

* Performance budgets
* Naming conventions
* Living style guide
* Content modeling

#### Design Reviews
Also as a design team, we traditionally have been silo'ed on projects, often with only two of us working together. So in order to better facilitate communication among a team of four, I decide to implement a more formal critique process, borrowing from several sources for inspiration.

Footnotes:
[Jake Knapp's 9 Rules For Running A Productive Design Critique](http://www.fastcodesign.com/3019674/9-rules-for-running-a-productive-design-critique)
[Jared Spool's Moving from Critical Review to Critique](https://www.uie.com/brainsparks/2011/10/27/moving-from-critical-review-to-critique/)
[Tanner Christensen's Four Things Working at Facebook Has Taught Me About Design Critique](https://medium.com/facebook-design/critique-is-an-important-part-of-any-design-process-whether-you-work-as-part-of-a-team-or-solo-ef3dcb299ce3#.e1w6r3l0a)

#### User Research
Also, critically important to me was getting the interface prototypes in front of customers as soon as possible. It was one of the fatal flaws of the 2014 redesign of Sports Illustrated. It was first tested after 5-months of high fidelity design and prototyping had been invested into the product, and after testing poorly, the results weren't acted upon because there wasn't any willingness from the highest levels to change course at this point in the process. Having been a part of many projects where usability testing was consistently one of the first casualties in order to meet a launch date, I decided to put together a deck for my team and stakeholders, explaining the importance of early and often usability testing.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h7gJeQCBFofoOK_Kp8w03xcE-YxxfrR9UDanOu7LTU4/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="480" height="299" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

As for the right cadence of testing, I struck inspiration from Jake Knapp and decided to set up a monthly recurring usability testing day. So far we have run 2 tests to date.

{% include image.html img="assets/img/jakeTestFriday.png" title="Jake test Friday" caption="Jake's advice on creating Test Fridays" %}

We used the proto-personas to inform our recruitment screeners. And I applied the sticky note taking process outlined in the Sprint book in order to increase the stickiness of the takeaways from the sessions.






Key team members
Head of Product: Krys Krycinski
Product Managers: Juan Espada, Todd Patrick, Ed Schwendemann
Product Designers: John Cassidy, Matt Walker, Nic Lanzillo, Ines Major
Business: Patty Hirsch, Paul Cacciato
Editorial: Paul Fichtenbaum, Ryan Hunt, Ben Eagle
Technology: Alex Charalambides, Eric Saam, Zac Shepherd, Chris Murphy, Aaron Marasco, Harry Hope, Mike Hynson, Justin Ferrara
Research: Andy Borinstein, Brian Koenig
Audience Development: Sidrah Althaus
