---
layout: post
title:  The Sports Illustrated App
categories: projects
img: assets/img/luluPlants.jpg
---

### Overview


Outside of the weekly magazine app published to Newsstand and Google Play, Sports Illustrated hasn't had a native app in the app store.

At the very time Sports Illustrated demo was getting older and older, it was becoming increasingly clear that SI was missing an opportunity to engage our key demographic of younger users.


### Kickoff

We kicked off the project on June 9, 2015 with a full day discovery and requirements gathering meeting. We reviewed competitor apps, did lighting demos of apps for inspiration with the goal of launching before the 2016 Super Bowl.

{% include image.html img="assets/img/siApp-competitiveLandscape.png" title="SI App competitive landscape" caption="A look at the competitive landscape for sports apps" %}


> Having spent much of my time at Sports Illustrated working on web products, this project allowed me to dive deep into native app design, particularly familiarizing myself with the Human Interface and Material Design Guidelines.
{:.commentary}

### Pinned Game and Video Interaction

One of the trickier interactions within the app was the interaction between a pinned event tile and a pinned video tile.

The pinned event tile and pinned video tile posed an interesting challenge. So I decided to hop into a high fidelity prototyping app (ultimately deciding on Pixate) to rapidly try out several directions.  to choreography

<video class="screencap" src="/assets/videos/pinnedEventAndVideo.mp4" poster="/assets/img/pinnedEventAndVideoPoster.png" loop controls></video>
<h4 class="caption">An example of a prototype for the interaction between a pinned event and a pinned game.</h4>

### Scoreboard Matrix
Another interesting challenge was coming up with an interface for scoreboards that would support multiple sports across many different states. In order to hone in on a layout the was flexible enough to accommodate the variations but robust enough to handle requirements of each sport, I decide to create a matrix with sports on the Y-axis and event states on the X-axis. This framework allowed me to quickly iterate through layout options as well as succinctly communicate these choices to the team.

### What I Learned
A few takeaways for next time…
