---
layout: post
title:  Sports Illustrated Vault
categories: projects
img: assets/img/ozzieLong.jpg
---

### Overview
In March 2008, Sports Illustrated debuted the Vault, bringing the 53-year history of the brand into the digital world. It launched to [some fanfare](http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/17/business/media/17mags.html?_r=0) and brought with it some significant traffic, peaking in July 2009 with 2.7 million unique visitors, and goodwill among loyal and new users alike. However, over time, with it's appeal and traffic (declining steadily 27% YoY) waning, it's feature set was significantly reduced when SI.com relaunched in June 2014. The entire experience became ["search-gated,"](https://web.archive.org/web/20140819044458/http://www.si.com/vault) a term we lovingly coined to describe the burden the product now placed on people to know precisely what they were looking for. Some people shared their frustration.

{% include image.html img="assets/img/shermanReportVaultComments.png" title="User frustration over the new Vault" caption="Their frustration was real." %}

Including a prominent sports personality…
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Did we ever find out why SI intentionally destroyed the once-amazing SI Vault and made it completely impossible to find ANYTHING? Bizarre.</p>&mdash; Bill Simmons (@BillSimmons) <a href="https://twitter.com/BillSimmons/status/542703982188044288">December 10, 2014</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

So we decided to do something about it.

### Research
While it widely understood within the company that the Vault was underperforming, I wanted to ensure our team and stakeholders remained user-focused throughout the entire product development process. To do so, I conducted a series of interviews with a few of our former Vault editors and surfaced user research and analytics that had been collected over the years. As fantastic as that type of research is, I've seen many an eye glaze over when it's circulated.

This time around I was determined to change that. I knew that somehow I had to make these personas feel more real. So I proposed an idea: let's search the interwebs and find actual people tweeting, talking, and writing about Sports Illustrated archival content. The team bought in and we immediately fired open a Google Doc and began to grab screenshots and jot down notes. We had fun trawling through the nasty, the fun,

Though perhaps not methodologically sound, the exercise brought the research process to life for the team in a way that I hadn't experienced before. When we finished, we took the doc, and coupled with our other research findings, whipped up several key proto-personas. The result was a shared understanding of our users and experiences we could now all empathize with.

### A Pinch of Data Driven Design
As I mentioned earlier, prior to this redesign, the Vault was search-gated. While this made the experience painful, I realized we could use it to our advantage. I dove into our Omniture analytics and pulled the data on what people were most often searching for in the daunting field.

{% include image.html img="assets/img/vaultSearchTerms.png" title="Top 30 Vault Search Terms" caption="The top 30 Vault search terms (with a comparison to the general SI.com search frequency)" %}

Taking these insights, I wireframed a new search experience with these search terms pre-seeded in buckets when the user focused the search field.

<video class="screencap" src="/assets/videos/vaultSearchSeeding.mp4" poster="/assets/img/vaultSearchTermsPoster.png" loop controls></video>

### Wireframes
<iframe width="375" height="800" src="//invis.io/5V7LMDIWP" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

### Result
Since launching as a beta in late December 2015, the Vault has seen a 183% increase in unique visitors and 126% increase in time spent. We're just getting started. There's plenty still to go on the roadmap.










SCRATCH

Together, we built a shared understanding of our users' experiences and now could empathize

The goal was to build up a shared understanding


took our team and stakeholders through proto-persona exercises in order to ensure our team remained user-focused throughout the entire product development lifecycle. To do so, I .

On past projects, I struggled to convince our stakeholders of the importance of personas.
